-: Welcome back.
In this section we are going to work
on a microservices deployment.
So in addition to whatever we have used earlier
elastic load balancing, classic network
all these load balancers,
we are also going to add one more AWS service
as part of this, which is simple email service.
So we'll see why we are going to use additional service
of AWS for our microservices.
We are going to look into now.
So we are going to have two microservices
and one is user management microservice
and which are going to have the following APIs inside that.
So create user API, list users, delete user
and then health status.
Even we'll have some other APIs
which we really don't need, update API and other stuff.
And so whenever we create a user
it is going to store that user in the users DB.
So now we are going to have one more microservice.
Already we have discussed that microservices
are independent units of our core
which means like they're completely independent
and then we will be able to call from one microservice
to another microservice.
So with that said, so we are going to have one more
microservice named notification microservice.
So it is going to have something
called send notification API and its own health status API.
So what happens now?
So and when you need to send a notification
it need to connect to the SMTP server.
So what does this notification mean?
So whenever a user is created
it is going to send an email using SMTP server.
So let's see, in a step by step manner.
So as a API developer or API user or whoever it is
so if he tries to create a user using Postman Client, right?
So whenever we create a user,
so the user gets first stored in users DB
and then this respective create user API
from user management microservice
going to call the send notification API.
So whenever a new user is created
so we need to send a notification
for that respective user's email address.
So we'll call the send notification API.
So the email will be triggered
and using the AWS SMTP service.
So we are going to send the email to the end user.
So this is what the overall use case
from microservices perspective.
So which we are going to deploy
on the elastic Kubernetes service.
So let's see all these things in a architectural pattern.
So we have seen in a functional pattern
how this is going to work so far, right?
So let's see in architectural pattern
how this is going to fit
on elastic Kubernetes service on AWS.
Moving on.
So microservices deployment on AWS EKS.
So we are in AWS cloud
and whenever we create the EKS cluster,
so which is nothing but the cluster control plane
we can call it as
and it creates our VPC respective subnets
and public, private subnets and equivalent not gateways.
Okay? So now whenever we create a node group
EKS manager node group
and we are creating it in private subnet
which will be more real to the real time use case.
So we are not trying something on public subnet.
So we are trying to be more realistic
in real time how it is going to be.
So we are creating it on the private subnet.
So in this we have created a two node node group.
So which will have worker node one and then worker node two.
So as soon as these are created
the outbound communication for these worker notes
will be via NAT gateway
and even to the EKS cluster control plan.
Are any workload deployed here want to access
to the external environment?
They go where? NAT gateway only. Okay.
So now moving on the next step is,
so notification microservice deployment.
So right, as usual, we already know that
if you want to create any, create a deployment on Kubernetes
we already know that we are going to have
a deployment manifest
and to expose it we are going to have a service manifest,
correct? Right?
So notification microservice, we are going to
deploy that respective application as two pods.
And then what we are going to do is
this notification microservice needs access
to our SMTP server.
So we are going to use SMTP server
as simple email servicing AWS.
So we are going to create a SMTP external name service
in our Kubernetes cluster.
So wherein this notification service
calls this simple email service end points
via external name service present inside this worker nodes.
Okay, So now the next thing is
this notification service should be called
by the user management service.
So for that purpose, this notification service needs
it means like this notification microservice
needs a notification cluster IP service which we created.
Then what happens, right?
So we are going to have a RDS DB
for our user management microservice.
So for user management microservice deployment
whenever we deploy it, it's equal in pods get deployed
and using my SQ external name service
they are going to connect to the Amazon RDS database, right?
So now once they connect to the Amazon RDS database
this application inside UMS pod
which is user management microservice application
is going to come up online.
So now the next thing is
you want to expose this user management microservice
to the internet world.
So what are the options available
if I am sitting inside the private subnet?
So the options available for me
when I'm sitting in the private subnet
is either the load balancer of any type.
In AWS, it is going to be network load balancer,
classic load balancer or Ingress load balancer.
And we as we try to always use the latest and the greatest
and as we are going to use microservices
in future we might have multiple microservices
considering the design in such a way.
So we are going to use the Ingress service
which is nothing but application load balancer.
So first we will create a UMS node port service here
and then we are going to create a Ingress service.
So which is nothing but UMS Ingress service.
So this UMS Ingress service will be pointed
to this respective UMS node port service.
So now the next thing
is whenever the UMS Ingress service is created, right?
So automatically it is going to use our Q1 cloud star
dot Q1 cloud dot com related SSL certificate
from the certificate manager
and we are also going to use the external DNS, right?
So for that purpose it is going to register
our UMS dot Q1 cloud dot com automatically here.
Okay, so we are also going to register one more DNS
which is services dot Q1 cloud dot com.
So now with Ingress
we also have our route 53 DNS also registered.
So as an user, my next step is to access it
and then test it.
So I'll try to use user management slash user
or health status or whatever I want to use.
I'll try to use it to access it.
So all this testing, I'm going to do it via Postman.
So this is the endpoint for our create user.
So when I'm trying to create a user, what happens?
The request will come to the Ingress service
and from there slash star
we have directly routing to all to the UMS bot.
So the request will come to UMS node port service,
and then from there it will split
and then do the load balancing
between UMS pods present there. Okay?
And then from there it will go ahead
and then go to the external name service
and then create that user inside the RDS database.
So once the user is created in the RDS database
then it need to call the notification service, right?
So it will call the notification cluster IP service
which will send that traffic
to the notification respective pod.
And then notification service
will call the SMTP external name service
to send the email via simple email service.
So now the simple email service
will send the email to the respective end user
and then there they'll be able to see the email.
So this is the entire architecture
we are going to build now, right?
Means like this is the entire stuff
we are going to implement
as part of microservices deployment on AWS E case.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.